Q: How similar will this competition be to in-person Science Bowl?
A: During the COVID-19 pandemic, the official rules were changed such that in that there was no buzzing and conferring on tossups was allowed. SBST will instead follow in-person rules — we will be emulating real buzzing, and we will not allow conferring on tossups. All timing and scorekeeping will be in accordance to pre-pandemic NSB rules. Check out the SBST YouTube videos for more info.

Q: How qualified is the SBST team?
A: Our writing team is comprised entirely of regional champions, several of which have achieved national and international recognition in Olympiads. Our Staff also has plenty of experience running Science Bowl tournaments, including SB(Spring)T, the Connecticut Science Bowl League (CSBL), the Lexington Online Summer Tournament (LOST), and Science Bowl League (SBL) Fall. 

Q: How many teams will be participating?
A: We currently expect around 32 teams. This is not a strict limit — we have had as many as 50 participating teams in previous competitions, so we are prepared to accommodate as many teams as we can.

Q: We are a young/inexperienced team that would like to play in a less competitive setting. Will there be different divisions based on skill?
A: Depending on the number of participating teams, we may choose to categorize teams based on their skill level to provide an enjoyable environment for everyone. In this scenario, we will likely have two divisions, one for more competitive teams and another for more casual teams.

Q: What will the question difficulty be like?
A: Questions will range from the difficulty of Regional Round Robin to National Double Elimination questions.

Q: How will you prevent cheating?
A: We will have several outlets for players to anonymously report others suspected of cheating. Given the fast pace of the competition and the design of the questions, cheating is made inherently difficult. We take cheating very seriously and are committed to providing a fair environment to everyone.

Q: Will you allow people to spectate matches?
A: We can confirm we will be streaming the finals of the Championship tournament on YouTube or Twitch. 

Q: What is the maximum number of people allowed on a team?
A: We only allow 5 people per team, with only 4 playing at a given time (as per official NSB rules). 

Q: We have more than 5 people interested in participating; can we bring two teams?
A: We will allow teams to apply for a ‘B’ team at a reduced cost. NOTE: ‘A’ teams will be given precedence over ‘B’ teams, so a ‘B’ team will never take the spot of an ‘A’ team wishing to compete. 
